[MUSIC PLAYING]
FREDRICK (VOICEOVER):
What would happen
if you had the chance to go
back in time and heal the past?
And maybe even say
some of the things
you never had the courage
to say to the person
who meant the most to you?
Does it make sense to even try?
Or is it better to
let it lie there,
like a memory in the
back of your mind
that never seems to fade?
But what would you say if that
person was suddenly right there
in front of you, after
years of separation,
and you're able to see
deeper into their eyes
than ever before, maybe all
the way to your own heart?
Would it make any
difference at all?
Or would it just tear open
the wound one last time,
just for old time's sake?
Maybe it's best to
learn from your mistakes
and become cynical, like
a war veteran who flinches
every time they hear a gunshot.
But what if they weren't
mistakes at all, but the fire
that tempers the steel?
Well, there's only
one way to find out.
KATHERINE: Anticipation's over.
Catherine.
Wow.
You're here.
I'm here.
Strange, but true.
FREDRICK: You look great.
Hardly changed at all.
Don't begin with
a lie, Fredrick.
We've both changed.
Six years'll do that to you.
FREDRICK: -More
mature, that all.
Otherwise, you're exactly
the same as I remember.
You look better.
Same face, but soft
around the eyes.
Softer?
That's surprising.
I would have thought
the opposite.
Well, I'll reserve judgment
for later when I find out more
about what you've been up to.
SERVER: Hi.
Could I get you folks
something to drink?
I'd like an americano, please.
Can I have a minute?
SERVER: Sure.
I'll have the same
thing he's having.
Hang on a second.
What?
Some things never change.
If I had ordered
a cappuccino, you
would have ordered a cappuccino,
but not after looking
at the whole menu first.
That's what you
remember about me?
And it's not even true.
Can I change my order
to a mocha, please?
SERVER: Of course, ma'am.
Thanks.
So the dies have been cast.
And it feels like days have
gone by instead of years.
Makes you wonder if
it's even worth it.
I mean, who's to say you
didn't make the exact decision
that you were
supposed to back then
and everything
turned out exactly
the way it was supposed to?
Why do we idealize what we lost,
as if we left ourselves behind
and we're never
going to be happy
again unless we get it back?
The funny is that if he
was the one that left her,
everything would be
reversed, and she'd be
the one all screwed up inside.
On the other hand, she
has her own dilemma.
Sometimes, there's a
part of us that wonders
if we made the right choice.
And we go into a situation
hoping the other person's
more lost than we are.
What if they're not?
It'd really suck if you got
back together years later
and you were the one with
the bags under your eyes.
My advice is that if
you have to do this,
you get it over with
as quick as you can.
Past is gone, and
there's nothing
you can do to get time back.
You know, on the other hand,
the heart has a logic the mind
is never going to understand.
So why even try?
May as well just
get on with living.
KATHERINE: I was glad to
hear that you're married.
Susan, right?
Yeah.
She's really great.
She understood that I
needed to do this on my own.
You make it sound
like heart surgery.
I hope it's not that difficult.
Just strange, the whole thing.
I never thought it would happen.
Especially here.
Planet Ashland.
Hasn't changed much, has it?
It's grown, though.
It had to happen.
It was an undiscovered
Shangri-La for so long,
and then California
realized we were here.
I liked it better before.
I used to tell people
it was a great place
to live except for all
the hurricanes and floods.
It doesn't look like it worked.
Well, you didn't waste
much time getting out.
Let's not go there.
FREDRICK: OK.
Where do you want to go?
-I don't know.
Just being here
feels like a step.
A big step.
Maybe even catastrophic.
SERVER: Here you go.
All right.
OK.
Thank you.
Were you nervous?
I'm actually surprised at
how comfortable it feels.
I wasn't sure, especially
sitting here waiting.
How about you?
You're not even
a little nervous?
I wouldn't call
it nerves, exactly.
More like a horse in
the starting gate.
I saw you, and I felt my
heart rate increase a little,
and I just wanted
to get it over with.
FREDRICK: Great.
Could we get the check, please?
That's not what I meant.
I meant the slow
approach, you know?
Seeing you sitting
there looking around
and me wondering what I'd say
if you didn't speak first.
Anticipation's over.
Exactly.
Not the best opening
line, but it worked.
Let's think of a better one.
A better opening line?
Why not?
We might as well make
the moment memorable.
OK.
How about hello, Fredrick.
It's nice to see that the
years have treated you well.
I wish I could say the same
for you, dear Catherine.
But those years in
the cotton fields
are bound to take their toll.
And I thought 20
years of heroin abuse
would make you look thin.
High carb diet
took care of that.
So Susan couldn't come.
Tell me more about her.
We've been married
for about a year
now, together for almost three.
She's really amazing.
Of course, I wonder if
I really deserve her.
You do.
FREDRICK: Why do you say that?
Just because I haven't
seen you in six years
doesn't mean I don't
know what you deserve.
That's funny.
KATHERINE: Why?
Well, I never really
got the feeling
like I deserved you either.
And I kinda got the impression
that you agreed with me.
That's what you thought?
If I recall, that's the
way it felt at the time.
It doesn't really matter.
Obviously, you let it go.
And now, you're happily married.
FREDRICK: And you?
Me what?
You're not married?
KATHERINE: No, but I am happy.
I've had a few
serious relationships.
I just never felt like stopping.
Why do you see
marriage as stopping?
There are an infinite number
of experiences out there
and a whole lot of
people to have them with.
Maybe if I found someone
who understood me,
someone who saw the
world the way I did.
But that hasn't happened.
Life has been full, though.
I'm sure it has.
Doesn't surprise me.
What?
None of what you just
said surprises me.
You've always been
that way, at least
as long as I've known you.
Settling down was
never your style,
unless it was with someone
who was exactly like you
or maybe the exact opposite.
Which is it?
Exactly the same or
the exact opposite?
Probably opposite.
KATHERINE: Why?
If it was someone
like you, that
would have been too obvious.
That's what happened to us?
You think we were
exactly the same?
That's a bit hopeful.
It's not hopeful.
It's just the way I saw it.
You thought we were soul mates.
I don't know about that stuff.
Maybe.
All I know is that if you're
not ready to look at yourself,
it's hard when
someone else reflects
everything, both good and bad.
So tell me more about Susan.
FREDRICK: You're trying
to change the subject?
My greatest fear about this
was this-- that we get together
and rehash everything that did
or didn't happen between us.
It's just so easy to look back
and regret certain things.
But what good does it do?
We can't go back to them.
All we can do is see each
other for who we are now,
and know that maybe we helped
make each other that way.
I know you changed my life.
And there were times when it
just scared the hell out of me.
And those were the things that
I had to look at the most.
And I've done that.
I've looked into all
the scary corners
and shed some light in there,
and you probably have too.
And now, maybe, we
can see something
we didn't see back then.
Anyway, the past is
gone, and I'm glad.
I think maybe we
did see it back then,
but we weren't ready
for what it meant.
Whatever.
I'm just glad you called.
How surprised were you?
Are you kidding?
I don't think I've ever
been more surprised.
I never understood why you
ended it the way you did,
but after so many years,
you just let it go.
KATHERINE: You probably
think I broke off
communications because of you.
Well, what else was
I supposed to think?
Did it ever occur to
you that I did it for me?
That was one of your problems.
It was always about you.
You weren't the only
one who had feelings
about what happened between us.
I had to break off
communication completely,
or else neither one of us would
have been able to move on.
It was the opposite for me.
I think the fact
that we never had
any real closure kept it alive.
If I'd been able to talk
to you-- not all the time,
but once in awhile-- it
would have been easier.
It took a whole year before
I was able to let you go.
I find that hard to believe.
Why do you say that?
You always went
through things fast.
I doubt I was any different.
How's your coffee?
Now, who's trying to
change the subject?
I just don't think you have
any ideas what I went through.
I don't think you have any idea.
All right.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry I broke
off communications.
That's one of the
things that I regret.
There are a lot of
things I regret too.
I know.
But here we are,
six years later.
So are you still working
as a war correspondent?
I'm still out there, I'm just
not doing the dangerous stuff.
I gave up the war zone
things a few years ago,
KATHERINE: I know.
I can't say that I was
disappointed to hear that.
FREDRICK: You know?
Have you been following me?
KATHERINE: Yeah, I check
every once in awhile.
I remember when
we were together,
you went off to
this war in Africa,
and I was sure I was never
going to see you again.
That was one of the hardest
parts about being with you.
You never let on.
It's because you didn't
see me when you were gone.
For you, it was easy.
FREDRICK: It wasn't easy.
Leaving you was never easy.
KATHERINE: So you'd
give it up for Susan?
I guess.
Besides, it's all about
taking risks these days.
It's too dangerous.
So what do you do now?
FREDRICK: Mostly just
local freelance stuff.
I just wrote an article about
a local grade school that
won the world's record
for making the world's
longest string of popcorn.
KATHERINE: No way.
Hey, it was picked up
by two wire services.
Besides, it keeps
me close to Susan.
KATHERINE: I never thought you'd
give up the wars for popcorn.
It's more like they gave me up.
When I got married, I
was done taking risks.
For the first time in my
life, I was determined
not to screw up what I had.
Unlike before.
Don't take it personally.
It's like I just grew up.
I never thought I'd
hear you say that.
You wouldn't even
recognize me anymore.
I do the garden.
I cut the grass.
No way.
-I hardly believe it myself.
-Dog?
Cat?
Two dogs.
Golden retrievers.
But no kids?
Mm-mm.
No, we decided not.
At least not for a while.
You know, I was really
scared to see you again.
KATHERINE: Why?
Afraid of old
feelings, I guess.
Afraid of the first few words.
Afraid of the way that
I might look at you,
or the way that you
might look at me.
KATHERINE: So how
does it feel now?
It feels like no time
has passed at all.
Same cafe.
Maybe we should go to the park.
-I don't know.
That might be too much.
I thought that was the point of
this visit-- to heal the past.
KATHERINE: I guess
it is part of it.
-What's the other part?
-Don't worry.
We'll get to that later.
FREDRICK: Ah, mystery.
How does it feel to
have the tables turned?
You thought I was mysterious?
I'm shooting for transparent.
KATHERINE: I'm not
trying to be mysterious.
I just don't want
it to get too heavy.
It doesn't have to.
Good, because I wanna
look back on this fondly.
FREDRICK: So how's it so far?
So far, so good.
It feels familiar.
You know, I haven't been
back to Ashland since I left.
Yeah, I moved about
four years ago.
I moved down to Sacramento.
That's where I met Susan.
Then we moved to the Bay Area.
I'm still in Phoenix.
I lived with my
sister for a while.
And then I got my own house.
I'm dying to hear what
happened to your book.
KATHERINE: Nothing, really.
I self-published.
I did an internet thing.
I never could get a publisher
interested in it, though.
That's the thing that made me
fall in love with you at first.
I couldn't believe what
a great writer you are.
KATHERINE: Why'd you
never finish reading it?
I read most of it.
KATHERINE: But you
never finished it.
It was just before I headed
off to Australia, you remember?
You had just
finished a new draft,
and you told me not to finish
reading until I got down there.
Then you broke up
with me a week before.
I wasn't gonna read it then.
Ah, you had a whole
year before that.
FREDRICK: I'm not trying
to make up excuses.
It just didn't feel
very good back then.
Look, you said that there are
certain things that you regret.
That's one of the
things I regret.
There are lots of ways I
didn't give everything,
even though I wanted to.
What?
Remember that time I
got you that old bike?
And I wanted to go
riding all the time.
You went one, and I don't
think you ever went again.
You kept saying
that you felt silly.
I wasn't in shape.
You worked my ass up and
down those hills so hard,
I thought I was
going to fall off.
You're in good shape now.
FREDRICK: Thank god.
I go to the gym a
couple times a week.
Makes you wonder, doesn't it?
FREDRICK: What?
What would happen if we
met now, how we would feel.
It'd be different.
Why?
It'd be different because
the people we are now
were created, at least in part,
by us being together back then.
If we'd never met, I
might be a big fat slob.
KATHERINE: I doubt it.
Don't.
You were a pretty big
influence on my life.
I thought that-- I thought
if I changed enough,
you might even come back.
Really?
I started working
on it six years
ago, right after you left.
I knew that I wanted to make
myself into a better person,
so I did something
every day that would
make me into a better man.
Some where in the back of
my mind, I thought you'd
move back to Ashland and
see how much I changed.
But you have to
start by accepting
yourself for who you are.
You can change your
face and your body,
but if you don't
change your attitude,
it doesn't make any difference.
How many women, or
men, for that matter,
get plastic surgery
over and over
and still don't like themselves?
So no more books?
It's funny you should ask,
because I've been working
on one for a couple months now.
FREDRICK: What's it about?
Well, my last one
was about my mother,
and probably didn't
get published
because it was too intense.
So I decided to pick
a lighter topic.
Are you gonna tell me?
It's about us.
What?
KATHERINE: That's one of
the reasons I contacted you.
It's about our relationship--
everything that happened,
and where it took us.
That's one of the reasons
I wanted to contact you.
At first, I thought I could make
up the where it took us part,
but the more I started writing,
the more I realized that I
needed to find out the truth.
You know, where you are
and what you're doing.
So this is all a
part of your research?
I guess it was at first.
But it made me
curious, you know?
And I'd be lying if I said it
didn't stir my heart a little.
Stirred your heart.
You always act like I'm
some kind of snow queen.
You're not the only
one who had feelings
about what happened between us.
Well, that's the way
it felt sometimes.
KATHERINE: That's because
you never understood me.
It was always about you.
I did love you.
But--
FREDRICK: Don't stop there.
I had to learn to love myself.
You can't expect someone
else to do that for you.
It has to come from inside.
FREDRICK: Mm.
That's a nice concept.
But you know, the bottom
line is you couldn't
stay in a relationship
with me for more
than two months at a time.
One day, it would be the most
amazing time of our lives.
And the next day, it was over.
How many times did
you break up with me?
Five?
It was only three.
FREDRICK: Yeah, but there
were two other times when
we almost got back
together and you
pulled the plug right before.
Those don't count as
two separate times.
Fine.
I'll put them together for one.
Obviously, it seemed
like it was about you.
But I have a different
perspective on it now.
Now, you realize it
was all about you.
Don't use that to
try to make yourself
sound like the innocent one.
You should be saying
the same thing.
I should be saying
it's all about me?
KATHERINE: Exactly.
-Wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
That's what you say
that I always say.
It's always about me, right?
Don't try to confuse me.
You know what I'm talking about.
Don't confuse you?
Women love to say that to men.
Do you realize how
simple men are?
Women are the ones
who are complex.
You say one thing, and
then a minute later,
you go off in the
opposite direction.
It's called nonlinear logic.
Women used to get burned
at the stake for that.
Yeah, by men who couldn't
understand what the hell
they were talking about.
Just because a
thought isn't rational
doesn't mean that it's not true.
Wait a minute.
What were we talking about?
How did you get me
off the subject?
Well, if you're so
nonlinear, being off
the subject shouldn't
be a problem.
What were we talking about?
I think that you said
that you had realized
that it was all about you.
KATHERINE: I don't think so.
I think I was saying
that you should
be saying the same thing.
Blame myself?
KATHERINE: It's not
about blaming anyone.
Ultimately, you have
to take responsibility
for your own experiences.
It's the only way we're
going to learn anything.
And of course, learning
is what it's all about.
You're so damn cynical.
Of course that's
what it's all about.
It's better than going through
life thinking you're a victim.
I don't think I'm a victim.
I actually think it
was mainly my fault.
Why?
You know why.
That was just part of it.
That's not the reason.
I think it was.
A pretty big part of it.
I should never have told you.
KATHERINE: You think that?
The last time that
we got together,
I thought I was the
luckiest man in the world.
I'm not kidding.
I really thought that.
But at the same time, there was
this aching feeling inside me,
because I knew I had to
risk everything and tell you
what I'd done a year earlier.
Otherwise, having
you back didn't
seem to make any difference.
That's not what broke us up.
Deep down, it probably did.
I think it planted
a seed in your mind,
and I don't think you were
able to trust me after that.
It was a big risk
you took telling me.
FREDRICK: Mmhm.
Probably wouldn't do it again.
KATHERINE: You would.
I don't know.
If it meant holding onto
you, I probably would
have kept it inside forever.
Those things never
stay inside forever.
They always have a way of
coming out, one way or another.
Is all this in your book?
Of course.
Oh, great.
But not the way you think.
That was probably the bravest
thing you've ever done.
Definitely.
Going into a war zone was
nothing compared to that.
And it helped make you the
incredible person you are now.
I always felt like I cheated
more on myself than you.
I thought if I can
work it out inside,
then I don't even
have to tell you.
But the funny
thing was, the more
that I worked it
out inside, the more
I knew I needed to tell you.
It was like being redeemed and
condemned at the same time.
Really, Fredrick, I'm serious.
That's not what broke us up.
I had to find myself.
I don't know.
Maybe it would be
different if it were today.
Who knows?
But you have to
get over thinking
that it was your fault.
It doesn't matter anyway.
Everything works out the
way it's supposed to.
Of course it does.
You're happy, right?
FREDRICK: I'm really happy.
I hope you get a
chance to meet Susan.
[CATHERINE EXHALES]
You guys would really
like each other.
KATHERINE: Mm.
What?
You wouldn't want to meet her?
Don't you think it would
be a little awkward for her?
FREDRICK: I think she
understands what's going on.
I just hope you understand.
I do.
Unless there's something
you haven't told me.
Actually, there is.
You have a son.
What?
[LAUGHING]
I'm just kidding.
No, there's nothing
I haven't told you.
FREDRICK: Jesus.
Don't do that to me.
KATHERINE: What?
Would that have been so bad?
Me having a son with you
that I never knew about?
Yeah, that would be a shock.
But it wouldn't be that.
Of course it wouldn't be bad.
It would be-- I don't even know.
Why are we even
talking about this?
I just wanted to
see how you'd react.
[FREDRICK LAUGHING]
Best leave that out when
you get home to Susan.
Oh, she's just down the
street at the hotel waiting.
She's here?
I thought you said
you were alone.
No, I said that she knew
that I had to be alone.
But I didn't come
here without her.
Even now, someone's intruding
on our time together.
FREDRICK: She isn't intruding.
She's here support to me.
Yeah, like all the rest.
FREDRICK: What's that
supposed to mean?
What rest?
Nothing.
Forget it.
-Kat.
I'm sorry, I didn't
mean to imply you--
It's OK.
It's fine.
I just misunderstood.
When you called and asked
if we could get together,
it was like this weight
lifted off my heart that I
didn't even know was there.
I had grown so
used to it, it had
become this normal part of me.
Susan understood that.
I think she must have
felt it at all along.
It's pretty incredible
that she's here at all.
FREDRICK: That's how she is.
I'm lucky.
I'm glad.
You deserve it.
FREDRICK: So is there a plot
to this book you're writing?
KATHERINE: It's
about falling in love
and wondering who it is
you fell in love with
and then realizing that
it was yourself all along.
You've lost me.
It's what I just said.
We need another person,
and a part of us
thinks that they have
something that we don't have
anymore-- something we need.
And then all of our
hormones kick in,
and we move hell and high
water to get that thing,
and then not to lose it.
But that just makes us
unsatisfied, you know?
It makes us crave
the real thing even
more, which is why
so many marriages
dissolve into complacency.
Which leaves the
obvious question.
What is the thing that
we think we don't have
that we search for in others?
Let me guess.
Great sex.
No.
Understanding, self-knowledge.
-Understanding?
-Yeah.
This is nonlinear, right?
That's what we're
all searching for.
To understand who we are.
Well, how are we supposed to
find that in somebody else?
You can't, stupid.
That's the point.
Though we keep trying.
Somewhere along the way,
we think we lost something.
And we keep searching
outside of ourselves for it.
What if the thing we thought we
lost was inside us all along?
We just have to look
at the right place.
I'm having a hard time
seeing how this applies to us.
You could never understand why
I kept breaking up with you.
It had nothing to do with you.
I kept looking for you
to give me something
that I didn't think
I had anymore.
And when you didn't,
I became frustrated,
and that wasn't
your job I really
do think we were
meant to be together,
just not for the
reasons we thought.
Whoa, wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
What do you mean by that?
I don't recall every
feeling that from you.
That's unfair, Fredrick.
I know you take
everything personal.
But don't make it
sound so horrible.
There are lessons we could
only learn by being together,
no matter how it turned out.
I don't even remember
what I thought.
Yes, you do.
You thought we were
going to get married
and live happily ever after.
I did too for a while.
And when it didn't work
out, I had to look deeper.
And at first, I didn't
like what I saw.
And then I realized that you
were one of my greatest gifts.
You have a pretty
strange way of showing it.
Why do you say that?
Six years have passed,
and I haven't heard a word.
Then suddenly, you
want to write a book
about it telling the world
what an amazing gift I was?
You make it sound so horrible.
It's not that it's horrible.
But from my perspective,
it completely sucks.
You break up with
me for the third
or the fourth or the fifth time,
depending on how you define it,
and even though you're
the most important
person in the world
to me, you decide
we can't even communicate.
I don't wanna keep
beating a dead horse,
but I didn't know
what to do with that.
It was like somebody
died and I didn't
get a chance to
tell them how much I
loved them or missed them.
I'm glad you were able
to go off and have all
these brilliant realizations.
But it wasn't the same for me.
Catherine?
Is that you?
It's Mike.
You probably don't remember me.
We had a date like
eight years ago.
Yeah, Mike.
I do.
How are you?
MIKE: I'm great.
I thought you move like
six or seven years ago.
KATHERINE: I'm in Phoenix now.
Are you still here?
Oh, I doubt I'll
ever leave Ashland.
I'm sorry.
I'm Mike.
I hope I'm not
interrupting anything.
FREDRICK: No.
-No.
Nothing serious.
This is Fredrick.
MIKE: Right.
I used to see you around town.
Are you guys married now?
You were dating
back then, right?
KATHERINE: No.
We're just spending
the afternoon together.
Well, I don't want
to, uh, get in the way,
but if you have time, why
don't you, um, give me a call?
We could have
dinner or something.
That's my cell
phone on the back.
KATHERINE: OK.
Yeah, maybe.
It was really nice
seeing you again.
It was nice to see you too.
Have a great walk.
(SARCASTIC) That was fun.
Yeah, it was.
I don't have right
to get jealous.
You're married.
Look, back to what
I was saying before,
I was holding onto
stuff for six years,
and I didn't have any
way of letting it go.
Maybe that was why it was
important for us to meet.
Maybe.
So when I get to
Baghdad, that taxi
drops me off at this hotel
called the El Rashid.
Mmhm.
You gotta remember, I've been
on the road for like two days
straight.
And when I get to
Amman, somebody
tells me I have to take a
taxi all the way into Iraq.
I couldn't believe it.
It was like this 12 hour
drive, tiny little car.
Driver speaks like
three words of English.
So we finally get to
Baghdad, which is literally
my first steps onto Iraqi soil.
And I get out of the cab, and
I'm walking up to the hotel.
And I look to the floor, and I
see this huge, really well done
mosaic.
And then I see these old
Iraqi women spitting on it
as they pass by.
And as I'm walking
over it, I see
that there's this face in the
center of the mosaic-- really
big, with a snarl on his lips.
And I think, that
looks just like George
Bush-- senior, of course.
And I look back, and
sure enough, it is.
You have to walk
over George Bush's
face to get into this hotel.
You're kidding.
No, that's not
even the best part.
Underneath the face in the
mosaic is a sign that reads,
in English, "Bush
is a criminal."
Those were your
first steps in Iraq?
It didn't make me
feel all that welcome.
I thought, geez.
Maybe I should tell
everybody I'm a Canadian.
It's hard to hate Canadians.
I don't know.
I met a few seedy
characters in Toronto.
So do you miss the danger?
No, it's not the
danger that I miss.
It's more the perceived
danger and how
everybody thought about me when
I went to dangerous places.
It was never dangerous as
you think it's going to be.
If you keep your head down
and follow a few basic rules,
for the most part,
you're going to be fine.
It's the guys who are always
looking for their big Pulitzer
Prize winning photo.
They wind up pushing
the envelope too far
and getting caught
in the crossfire.
I do miss people thinking
I'm hot shit because I
traveled to war zones, though.
You don't get the same kind
of respect writing stories
about popcorn.
I'm glad you stopped, though.
Every time a conflict
broke out in the world
I worried about you.
That's funny.
KATHERINE: Why?
Do you remember when I
was heading to Iraq in '98?
We had just broken up, you had
already cut off communication.
And I was really
scared about going.
Usually, I'm fine.
I never worry.
But there were a lot
of people getting
shot or kidnapped at the time.
And I had this terrible
feeling something
was gonna happen to me.
So I left a message
on your cellphone
asking you to call me.
The idea of going over there
without some kind of completion
with you made me sick.
It felt like I was
going to actually
draw something bad to me.
All I wanted was
to say good bye.
No big scene, just a
two minute phone call.
You never called.
I would have been fine
with a email, anything.
But instead, I wind up
going off to this war zone
all screwed up inside.
What do you want
me to say to you?
It doesn't matter
what you say now.
That's when I needed it.
KATHERINE: Is it all right if
I just say that I was wrong?
FREDRICK: You're
willing to admit that?
It doesn't matter
what excuse I use.
I was feeling what I
was feeling at the time.
I should have
called, bottom line.
Yeah.
Yeah, that feels better.
KATHERINE: You know, if we
look back and second guess
every choice we ever made, we're
gonna be in for a long battle.
We all make mistakes--
you, me, and everyone else.
We're human.
We're all idiots sometimes.
Do you have any idea
how mad I was about that?
KATHERINE: Mad enough to
hold onto it for six years?
It proved to me
that I wasn't screwed
up one in the relationship.
I thought, damn,
if she won't even
call me when I'm headed
to Iraq, maybe I'm
not the one with the problem.
It made you right.
FREDRICK: Yeah, I guess so.
KATHERINE: Did that help?
-Being right?
-Yeah.
I guess.
But it wasn't even that.
I mean, up until that
point, I had never
been so close to
anybody in my life,
and then you pulled the plug.
I needed something
to get over. you.
I actually needed you
to be a bitch to me.
Well, did It work?
For about a week.
And then what?
Then, I was right
back where I started.
It took a year for the
pain in my gut to ease up
and get you out of my dreams.
I'd see these women
who reminded me of you,
and of course, I
was wildly attracted
to every single one of them.
There's this Lyle Lovett song
that goes, (SINGING) I married
her, she looked a lot like you.
If I could have gotten
with one of those women,
I would have done
it in a second.
You didn't jump in with anyone?
FREDRICK: I wanted
to, but I didn't.
For the first time
in my life, I decided
to take a break from women.
There were lots
of opportunities.
And I mean lots
But I didn't do it.
And I knew I had to
feel everything that
was coming my way and not run.
And first, all I wanted was a
woman to make the pain go away,
but I knew that
wouldn't have helped.
So you took the
time to look within.
As much as I could.
Into-me-see.
What's that mean?
Intimacy.
Into-me-see.
That's what intimacy is.
Looking within.
We always search for the
answers outside of ourselves.
But it's all inside.
-What about you?
What'd you do?
I told do.
I had a few relationships,
nothing too dramatic.
No, no, no.
You gotta to give
me more than that.
I just spilled my guts
out all over the sidewalk.
First, I thought about getting
back with my old boyfriend.
Christopher?
Yeah.
But you can never go back.
I knew that if I wanted to
get serious with anyone,
I had to make a
clean break with you.
I noticed you did that.
Don't you see why?
I left Ashland because I
knew as soon as I saw you,
it would start all over again.
There's this thing
between us that's
intangible, like magnets.
-Do you feel it now?
-Yeah.
Do you?
Of course.
KATHERINE: Please
don't [INAUDIBLE].
FREDRICK: That gigantic cat.
I know, he's so tiny.
[INAUDIBLE]
[LAUGHING]
-OK.
-Are you still into this stuff?
-As if you aren't?
-Whatever.
I read "Conversations with
God" like everyone else.
You read more than that.
You read more than I did.
FREDRICK: Are you
seeing anyone right now?
That came out of nowhere.
FREDRICK: Sorry.
It just crossed my mind.
Are you?
Not really.
I've become much choosier.
Is that supposed to
make me feel good.
Before, I was picky.
Now, it's worse.
-What changed?
-I guess I did.
I know what I want now.
So it took me to get you there.
KATHERINE: You, and a whole
lot of other experiences.
No man that sparks that
fire breathing soul of yours?
You were never short
of opportunities.
Right.
It's like me not being
able to imagine you
settling down with one woman.
Are you serious?
KATHERINE: That was
the thing with you.
Even when you were with
me, you weren't with me.
That's what I was trying
to tell you before.
How can you that?
You always used to say
that, and it was never true.
It doesn't matter if
it was true or not.
It's what I was
feeling at the time.
Whether it was true for
you is not the point.
Of course it's the point.
I mean, what you're accusing
me of is not being faithful.
-Well.
-One time.
And I know that one
time is unacceptable.
But just like you've
been asking to understand
how you're feeling, I
need you to understand.
Understand what?
To this day, I still don't
understand what happened.
I was so in love
with you, and yet, I
almost threw it all away.
I've never been so disgusted
with myself in my life.
Then why did you do it?
I guess I tried to prove
that I didn't deserve it,
which is what I really felt.
Oh, well, at least
now you understand.
I just hope you understand.
I understood back then.
Why do you think I forgave you?
Did you really forgive me?
Or was it just some
temporary lapse?
What are you talking about?
I don't know.
Maybe I just can't
imagine being forgiven.
I think that's
exactly what it is.
That's why it never
healed inside of you.
Have you ever read this book?
FREDRICK: "The Dark Side
of the Light Chasers."
Yeah.
It's about shadow work.
See, we all have
these shadow parts
of ourselves that influence
nearly everything we do.
And most of the time, we try to
hide them or get rid of them,
and that just makes
them stronger.
This book is about embracing
them and integrating them
into our lives.
Have you done that?
KATHERINE: Shadow work?
Yeah.
It's brutal, but it works.
So what was your shadow?
First of all, it's none
of your damn business.
And secondly, we all
have tons of them.
For example, if I were
afraid of commitment,
I would face that part, name
it, and make friends with it.
Maybe I would name her
Uncommitted Connie.
Oh my god.
KATHERINE: What?
It's silly.
Well, if I were
cheap, maybe I would
name that part Charlie Cheapo.
You talking to me?
You were always cheap.
You just pushed it aside so you
didn't have to deal with it?
And you're like
Ridiculous Rita.
KATHERINE: Well,
you're Denying Dennis.
Can we go back to being
just Fredrick and Catherine?
OK.
Fredrick the frady-cat.
It sort of reminds
me of couples
that always have
these cute little
pet names they give each other.
But what happens to those
names when they split apart?
Do they just dissolve?
Or are they like windows into
worlds we think we forgot?
I mean, let's face it.
There's some things
we never forget.
Unless, of course,
you're Forgetful Frank.
FREDRICK: Do you think
magnets change with time?
What are you talking about?
If you buried a magnet for six
years, would it lose its field?
If you put it next to another
magnet, would it still attract?
I think this has more to do
with you and I than magnets.
Time doesn't seem
to have changed much.
Time doesn't change.
It just waffles.
Waffles?
Yeah, like someone who
can't make up their mind.
Haven't you ever noticed
that one five year
period may age you 10
years, while another
gives you five back?
Haven't you ever
seen two brothers
who are about the same age but
live totally different lives?
One feels totally
worn down by life,
and the other doesn't seem
to be affected at all.
-You're losing me.
-OK.
There are these two
brothers, right?
Little boys.
And one is a total
optimist, while the other
is a total pessimist.
So one day, the parents decide
to even them out a little bit.
And for Christmas, they decide
to get the pessimist boy
everything he could want.
While to the
optimistic, they give
a big box full of horse manure.
What kind of messed
up story is this?
Don't interrupt.
So then, Christmas Day comes,
and the pessimist boy opens up
his presents to see that
Santa Claus has given
him everything he could want.
And he's totally dissatisfied.
He's like, this
train won't work.
This truck's gonna brake.
I can't wait to hear
what the other kid though.
So the optimist boy opens up
his presents to see that he has
a big box full of horse manure.
And his parents look to see
how he's going to react.
Well, he starts
digging through it,
having the time of his life.
And his parents ask
him what he's doing.
And he says, well, I
figured with all this shit,
there's bound to be a
pony in here somewhere.
I have no idea why you
just told me that story.
It shows you that everything in
life is a decision, even time.
I mean, you can have
everything you ever wanted
and be totally dissatisfied, or
have a box full of horse shit
and be the happiest
person on Earth.
So what happened
to the optimist boy
when he realized
there was no pony?
I never thought the
story through that far.
I'm trying to
remember what it is
we were talking
about before you went
off on that bizarre tangent.
That sometimes, the
things that we think
are worst are really best
for us, and vice versa.
Actually, I have to
agree with you on that,
especially in terms of what
we were just talking about.
Even though it was the
worst thing I'd done,
it changed me completely.
If I hadn't done it, I might
not be where I am today.
In a great marriage to Susan.
Well, it took me a year to
realize that we were together
for whatever the
right reasons were,
but they weren't
necessarily my reasons.
Anyway.
If that hadn't of happened,
I might never have grown up.
I wouldn't call you a grown up.
As if you are.
I'm more grown up than you.
Hm.
Please.
You're the one writing a book
about a failed relationship
that ended six years ago.
Yeah, and you're
the one who makes
a living writing stories
about the longest
string of popcorn in the world.
At least I make a living.
I make a living.
What does that mean?
I could buy a house.
Do you have a house?
I don't think so.
I bet you Susan's rich.
No.
We do own our own home.
-You do?
[INAUDIBLE].
KATHERINE: How big is it?
FREDRICK: [INAUDIBLE].
KATHERINE: Oh, right.
FREDRICK: I was watching
this movie a while back
about this couple
who meet in heaven
and decided that
they should find
a way to get together on Earth.
KATHERINE: Do they?
FREDRICK: Yeah,
but they have to go
through all this terrible
stuff before they can meet.
It's like they had
to learn whatever
it was they came
to Earth to learn
before they can get together.
KATHERINE: It's kind
of opposite with us.
How do you mean?
Well, we met back then,
went through a lot,
only to reunite now.
What would you say the
main thing that you've
learned since then would be?
The main thing?
Mmhm.
I guess it would be
that I can't expect
anyone to give me anything.
I mean, if I can't
find it inside,
there's no use in looking
for it on the outside.
You sound like Dorothy
in the Wizard of Oz.
There was a lot of esoteric
wisdom in that film.
Could you say do
that consistently?
I don't know.
I guess I'm getting
better at it all the time.
I wouldn't say that I'm
perfect at it, though.
How about you?
The main thing I've learned?
Mmhm.
You're gonna laugh
if I tell you.
I won't laugh.
I learned that I'm
a pretty great guy.
[LAUGHS]
-Oh, is that all?
Well, that was a big
problem all along, wasn't it?
I had all these people
telling me how great I was,
but I didn't believe it myself.
It actually happened
after we broke up.
I decided you didn't deserve me.
I didn't deserve you?
Obviously, it was just
a defense mechanism.
It's what I told myself
to justify lot of things.
But now I know that
it doesn't have
to do with deserving
anyone or anything.
I brought you into my life, just
like you brought me into yours.
And ultimately, it was
to learn about ourselves.
I want to stay with this
I didn't deserve you thing.
You really believe that?
Well, do you remember the last
time that you decided that we
should get back together?
When I decided?
Of course.
You know I was just
sitting around waiting
for the big chance.
I know it sounds
said, but it's true.
Anyway, you said that we
weren't going to actually
be in a relationship.
We were going to be just lovers.
If I recall, that
was your idea.
Well, that was just a
ploy to get you back.
KATHERINE: At least
you can admit it.
Well, I also told you
that I hoped that we'd
be able to say that we were
actually in a relationship
at some point.
I was very clear about that.
And every time, it started
to get intense-- good
intense or bad intense--
you had to remind me,
don't forget, we're not
actually in a relationship.
If I had more
respect for myself,
I would have said,
the hell with it.
I deserved more than that.
I deserve somebody who could
actually say the words.
Now you're pissing me off.
Like I said before,
that was your idea.
And I was honest with you too.
I didn't want to jump back into
the way things were before.
I wanted to take it slower.
And there we were, right
back where we were before,
and I didn't think it was
worth taking the chance.
You never gave it a chance.
How in the hell was I
supposed to prove anything
when you had already
decided that everything
was already over?
KATHERINE: I hadn't
decided that.
I was open to you.
I was open to even being more
serious than we were before.
FREDRICK: What does that mean?
I was even open to
the idea of marriage.
The idea of marriage.
Marriage is more than
an idea, Catherine.
I was open to more
than the idea of it.
But I wasn't all hung up on
marriage like you thought.
It wasn't about that.
I would have liked to have been
able to have proven myself.
That would have been nice.
Why are you bringing
this all up now?
Why are you even here now?
I feel like my heart's
being torn open again.
Look, did You.
Think we were just going to
hang out for the afternoon
and just go home like nothing
ever happened between us?
Six years have
passed, and I feel
like you left me a month ago.
I thought it would be good
if we saw each other again.
It is good to see you again.
It's great to see you again.
And that's the problem.
Don't you remember why you left?
It's because we can't
seem to be together
without this amazing soul
thing happening between us.
You're like the one in the movie
that I loved before I was born.
Seeing you again just
reminds me of all that
and how nothing has changed.
Let's just stop for a minute.
I didn't want it to get this.
I thought it was important
that we'd see each other again.
And what am I supposed
to do with it now?
You-- you said before that
we didn't have to do anything
with it, except maybe honor it.
You just said that the
one thing you learned
was that you were a
great guy, and you are.
You said you realized that
you deserved a woman who would
feel blessed to be with you.
Obviously, you found
someone who feels that way.
You can be intimate
with her because you
can be intimate with yourself.
-Listen.
I'm sorry if I'm blowing
our little reunion,
but this is a lot
more difficult than I
thought I was going to be.
These things have been
kept inside for so long,
and now they're just
exploding out of me.
I-- I just want you to
know how much it fucking
hurt when you kept leaving.
I'm sorry.
But you know, this
is all good stuff.
I'm glad that
you're feeling this.
Maybe now, you can move on.
I don't know if I can.
Sweetheart, you have to.
-Don't call me that.
-Sorry.
You know where we're sitting?
Of course.
Did you think I'd forget?
It all started here.
And ended here.
I didn't want to
come back here.
Too much for you?
Too loaded.
I remember those moments
more than any other.
Maybe you should take
what you said to me
and apply it to yourself.
-Maybe.
Do you remember what
you said to me here?
Which time?
The first time we got together.
Yeah.
I said that I wasn't
looking for a woman
to complete some
empty space inside me.
Looking back, I was
completely deluded.
Why do you say that?
You think we'd be doing
all this if that were true?
I don't know.
Maybe that's the reason.
Anyway, do you remember
what I said to you?
You said you wanted
to give it a try.
That's not what I said.
I said that at first, I
didn't know if you were
my brother or something more.
And then I realized I
had feelings for you
and I wanted to explore them.
I remember.
That was one of the
happiest days of my life.
It's funny that the
happiest and the saddest
should happen on the
exact same bench.
You haven't dug
it up, have you?
Of course not.
It's like a monument.
I remember the day you called
me and told me that you had
a surprise, and I should
wait for you at the store
next to the brewery.
And I see you standing there
with this mischievous grin
on your face.
I walked past that store
probably 100 times.
But then, the idea that
we should have our hands
cast together in plaster
hit me as the greatest idea
in the world.
KATHERINE: Yeah.
God, I love that thing.
I used to keep it as a
priceless piece of art
in the center of my living room.
KATHERINE: That embarrassed me.
Why?
I couldn't believe how
much you loved that thing.
FREDRICK: It was a symbol of
how much I loved you, Katherine.
That's why I couldn't
believe what you wanted
to do with after we broke up.
You're not going to forgive
me for that either, are you?
You wanted to have a ceremony
where we would smash it.
I-- my god, cat.
The most precious thing
in the world, and you
wanted to smash it.
It's not like I
wanted it destroyed.
Sort of like our relationship.
You can't do something
to the symbol
and not expect it to
roll on into the reality.
KATHERINE: Your idea was better.
I know.
At least my idea was
a way of honoring
who we were to each other.
I swear, I can
feel it vibrating.
Give me your hand.
You really feel something?
Sometimes, I think
about it, and it
makes me happy to
know that there's
this monument to how
much we love each other
that no one else knows about.
I mean, if I ever
wanted to, I could
just come back to this bench.
I've done that a lot.
KATHERINE: You have?
We come back to
Ashland every year,
and I always come back here
by myself and think about you
and think about
what you're doing.
And here we are now.
Do you think we should
do something special?
Like what?
Maybe you could sing something?
I think just being
here's enough.
I feel like a new
chapter is beginning.
FREDRICK: How do you mean?
KATHERINE: The fact
that we're here
together after all these years.
And there's still this
energy between us,
and these hands are radiating.
I don't know.
Just feels like something
new is beginning.
FREDRICK: I like that idea.
You do?
Does that surprise you?
I was always concerned
about hurting you.
I thought that this
might be too much.
FREDRICK: It is
in a lot of ways.
It's OK.
You said what you needed to.
I did.
Do you think we
could stay in touch
and have it still be healthy?
I don't know.
Part of me thinks it'd be fine.
Another part wonders if
I'll ever be able to be
just friends with you.
You're probably right.
So how's this book
of yours going to end?
I don't know.
I haven't decided yet.
Is all this gonna be in it?
At first, I didn't
think so, but now I do.
It's a perfect ending.
That's what we never had.
Do we ever really end?
I hope not.
FREDRICK: I doubt it.
You can't change someone's
life the way that we have
and just wrap it up in
some tidy little ending.
Well, I never thought you
and I would be legendary.
FREDRICK: Legendary fools.
Why do you say that?
Well, we've been fools
for love, especially me.
I carried you around
with me for six years.
It reminds me of
this story that I
heard about these
two Buddhist monks,
one very old, one very young.
And they're walking
along the river bank,
and they see this
beautiful woman.
And she needs to get
to the other side.
So the older monk decides
that they should carry
her across, which they do.
And they're walk along
for about an hour.
And the younger one hasn't
said anything in a long time.
And then finally, he
looks at his elder,
and he says, why
did you force us
to break our vows by carrying
that woman across the river?
And the older one looks at him
and he smiles, and he says,
I set that woman down when
I got to the other side.
Why are you still
carrying her around?
Time to set me down.
FREDRICK: Yeah.
It's time.
How long you in town?
I leave tonight.
I think I've finished
what I needed to complete.
How about you?
I'm gonna stick around for a
few days, visit a few friends,
maybe see a play.
I still love this town.
It's the best
place I ever lived.
Sometimes I wonder
why I ever left.
Wanna get going?
Do you think we
should do something
special with the hands?
I think we already have.
What did we do?
Well, I think maybe now
they can rest in peace.
Feel it again.
It feels calmer.
FREDRICK: Is that a good thing?
I think so.
So do I get to
look at this book
before everybody else
in the world reads it?
Nope.
Why not?
Because it's from
my perspective.
It doesn't have
anything to do with you.
How could it not have
anything to do with me?
Because everything
I write is about me.
That's what intimacy is.
Into-me-see.
You like that, eh?
It's cute.
But I don't know if it's fair.
Life is never fair.
Maybe I'll make
a movie about us.
A movie?
Would that surprise you?
No, nothing you did
would ever surprise me.
It never has.
This is a great story,
but the ending sucks.
The ending doesn't suck.
Years later, they meet,
reconcile the past,
and go their separate ways.
That sucks.
It would suck even more if
it had a Hollywood ending.
Credits roll as we ride
off into the sunset?
Unrealistic.
I was always the romantic
one in this relationship.
If that were true, your
movie would be a comedy.
So there you have it.
It's probably not the
ending a lot of you wanted,
but that's really how life is.
Perfect doesn't mean that
everybody gets back together
and lives happily ever after.
It's more about accepting
what really happens
and just getting on with living.
And by the way, the thing
I said before about getting
over this pretty quick--
in retrospect, that
probably wasn't very smart.
These things take as
long as they take,
and there's nothing we
can do to rush them.
But in the end,
we have the chance
to look back over our lives
and see some of the things we
missed the first time around.
Hopefully, we learn a lesson or
two and we get a little wiser.
As for those hands,
well, let's just
say that they're going to
be around as a reminder.
We just have to make
a choice about which
monk we want to be-- either
the one who set her down
or the one who's
still carrying her.
It's one of those choices
that we all have to make
at one point or another.
[APPLAUSE AND CHEERING]
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
I'm the director,
and I appreciate
very much your being here
tonight for the premier
of "Into Me See."
It's been a wonderful
evening for all of us,
and we're going to
continue the good times now
next door in the restaurant.
There'll be a little reception.
We'll get some wine
and cheese out for you,
and then we'll answer some
questions and schmooze a little
and just have a good time.
So we'll see you there, OK?
And thanks again for
being here tonight.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE AND CHEERING]
Thanks, sweetheart.
Thank you.
Oh, you scared me.
I thought I was alone in here.
I thought everyone had left.
I'll live in a minute.
I just wanted to
say hello first.
My god.
Oh my god.
I didn't think
you'd recognize me.
Are you kidding?
Come over here.
BOTH: You look great.
No, but you do.
You really do.
So do you.
How long has it been?
20 years?
-22.
But who's counting?
So how'd you find
out about this?
Oh, you think I'm going
to reveal my secret?
I don't think so.
I think I'm going to let
you suffer a little more.
Oh, so we're back to letting
me suffer again, are we?
You know what I really
want to know is why you
did this after so many years.
I would have thought
you would have moved on.
I did move on, completely.
I just wanted to revisit the
moment, I guess, one more time.
Or maybe I got tired
of waiting for the book
that you never wrote.
I tried to write it.
I did.
But I just was never
happy with what came out.
Yeah, well, somebody
had to tell our story.
So I thought I'd be the one.
Why?
Why was it so important?
Why was it-- you really
don't know, do you?
Ours was one of
the most important
relationships in my life.
I wouldn't know anything
about relationships
if it hadn't been for you.
You mean that.
Yeah.
I mean it.
They pause awkwardly,
look at each other,
and she goes on, changing
the subject abruptly.
So, um--
Nothing to say.
No.
Well, let's get out of here.
CATHERINE: Let's see.
Where are you today?
You've been married 23 years.
Came back to Ashland
10 years ago,
started your art magazine
five years ago, which is
now read by half the country.
Your daughter's 20.
And if I'm not mistaken, you're
gonna be a grandfather soon.
I am very impressed.
You're impressed?
I'm impressed.
How do you know all that stuff?
You drop off the
face of the Earth,
you know everything about me.
Hm.
You're not going to tell
me that all the while I've
been following your life, you've
been following mine, are you?
Jesus.
All right.
I'll ask you a second time.
How did you find out about this?
Well, just because
you're not creative enough
to track someone down
doesn't mean I'm not.
I guess it depends
on how much one
wants to, how much one cares.
It's not about caring.
It's about courage.
Well, I-- I guess
the name change might
have tripped you up a little.
-No kidding.
Why didn't you tell me.
Is he here?
Oh, yeah.
He's here.
He saw the whole film.
He saw it?
What did he think of it?
Well, he loved me, hated you.
Well, how long have
you guys been in town?
Oh, a couple of days.
We've just been
wandering around.
A couple of days?
Uh-huh.
I even saw you in
the park yesterday.
You saw me?
Well, why didn't you stop me?
We could have had
lunch or something.
I know.
It was hard.
It was so hard.
But I really wanted
to surprise you here.
You did that.
You blew me away.
Wait a minute.
You saw me in the park?
While I was sitting
on that bench?
Uh-huh.
That exact same bench.
-Yeah.
You caught me.
I mean, I sit on that
bench all the time.
I have.
For a lot of years.
Every time I sit
on that bench, it's
like when we were
there together, you
and me, on that day.
That day.
That day you put on film.
It was so strange, watching
it and seeing every moment
just as I remembered
them all these years.
Well, it's nice
to know you didn't
let those memories fade away.
Oh, did you really
think I would?
Did you really think
I would just walk
away and forget all about you?
JAMES: Yes, I did.
I-- I sometimes thought that.
What else was I
supposed to think?
Well, you were wrong.
And one of the things
I wanted to tell you--
the most important thing
I wanted to tell you
was all that time I was
throwing that word around,
intimacy, and feeling
like it was about finding
myself and me finding me.
And that is true, and
that is important.
But what that word also means
is having someone else see me.
Letting someone else see you.
Letting someone else see me.
Thank you.
It feels good to
hear you say that.
It really feels good
to be able to say that.
JAMES: So now, you know
why I made this film.
Now, you understood.
Yeah.
I didn't know how
I'd feel about it.
But oh, I was so touched
that you would remember.
Oh, you didn't forget, but
you thought that I would?
Well, I thought you
might want to, more.
Well, I did, for a long time.
But you know, years go by.
I got into my soul
space about it.
[LAUGHS]
No, really.
I thought it was
probably perfect that it
worked out that way in the end.
Part of our evolution.
Yeah.
I know.
I mean, it is hard at first.
We always think our hearts
are never going to mend.
But they do.
New people come into our lives.
Things change.
We-- but you never do
forget those who have meant
so much to you before, do you?
No.
Well, I'm glad I came.
So am I.
Oh, and I, um-- I did something
that you might not agree with.
JAMES: What did
you do, Catherine?
Well, I thought it was time
for a little archaeological dig.
You're not gonna tell you went
back to that park after I left,
are you?
I knew you'd made this film,
which was your way of blessing
what happened between us.
And I just had to
find my own way.
I thought it was time we let
those hands breathe again.
Catherine.
Of course, it's been 28 years,
and nature being what it is--
JAMES: What the hell is this?
CATHERINE: It's all that's left.
There was a lot of white
dust mixed with the dirt.
I guess time has its way with
everything, including us.
Anyway, something for
you to remember me by.
Catherine, I can't believe
after all these years,
you've finally
given me the finger.
I don't know whether this is
right or completely wrong.
No, it's right.
It's right.
At least, I think it is.
I mean, we'd buried those
hands all those years ago.
But it's not about the hands.
It's about the lessons we've
learned from each other,
and those are just--
those are priceless.
And it's just nice,
when you think about it.
SUSAN: Sweetheart,
everyone's waiting for you.
What's taking you--
Darling, this is someone
I want to introduce you to.
Oh, you don't need to
tell me who this is.
Catherine.
-Hi.
Whoa, wait a minute.
You two guys know each other?
When did you get to town?
Oh, we just came in early.
I've been here a couple of days.
Of course.
This is how you found out.
That's right, James.
I did what you didn't do.
I found her.
Hey, no fair.
She got married.
She changed her name.
How'd you find her?
A woman things past the
end of her nose, darling.
Courthouse has the
record of every marriage
for the last 100 years.
When you said you couldn't
find her under her own name,
I put two and two together,
went the extra mile,
became a real private detective.
She had a right to see what
you had created in your film.
And I had the right
to finally meet her.
I'm glad I came.
And I'm really glad that
you're the one who invited me.
You know, guys, this is--
this is almost much more
than I could have hoped
for-- having both of you
here like this at the same time.
It's a lot to take.
It's not strange that
we're together at all.
It should have
happened years ago.
There's something I
wanted to say to you
since the day I met this man.
Thank you.
Is it OK if I ask you what
that thank you is about?
SUSAN: She knows.
I know.
And now I think it's
time we get to this party.
Everyone's wondering
where the director is.
Ah.
Well, you two have got
some confessing to do.
Uh-huh.
I want to find out how long
you guys have known each other
and gone through this
scheme [INAUDIBLE].
That's our little secret.
[INAUDIBLE].
I forgot how beautiful
Ashland this time is of year.
It's like magic.
It is magic.
And this is going to
be a great Christmas.
Shall we?